we start in Israel where prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has publicly rejected
calls from the United States to scale
back its offensive in Gaza and for
post-war Palestinian statehood in a
nationally televised address Netanyahu
said Israel would not stop its war in
the territory until Hamas which is
considered a terrorist group by Israel
and the US was
destroyed in any Arrangement whether
there is an accord or not the Israeli
state must have security control over
all the territory west of a Jordan River
it's a necessary condition but that
clashes with the principle of
Palestinian sovereignty so what can I
say I've told our American friends this
truth I've also stopped the attempt to
impose a reality on us that would harm
Israel's security an Israeli Prime
Minister should be able to say no even
to our best friends no when necessary
yes when possible
let's get more now from DW correspondent
Tanya krma in Jerusalem good morning
Tanya can you tell us a bit more about
netanyahu's
remarks well actually it's not the first
time that uh prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu rejects the idea of a
Palestinian State uh we've been hearing
him saying uh that before but of course
this comes now after the US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin was in the region
just last week uh talking about that
they needs to be a pathway to
Palestinian State he also made remarks
at the world economic Forum there was on
Wednesday in this regard that Israel
cannot achieve genuine security without
that pathway to a Palestinian State I
think on the one hand uh the uh Israeli
Prime Minister wants to assert that it's
Israel who sets the tone which sets the
tone for what will happen in Gaza after
the war ends but also he's addressing of
course his domestic audience here there
is not uh much talk about you know a
peace with Palestinians or a two-state
solution at the moment the country is
very much focused on um uh the uh you
know releasing more hostages that are
remaining in Gaza there's a lot of
pressure on the government uh from uh
the Israeli public and uh there's not so
much talk about uh a Palestinian state
in that regard rather uh uh more
questions about how this war will end
and whether uh the goal that the
government has set to remove Hamas from
Power will actually be achieved but uh
this however puts the Prime Minister
again at odds with the United States
which has also called for Israel to
scale back its offensive in
Gaza well absolutely uh there are
several issues uh where uh both
countries very close allies uh differ um
one of them is uh of course the course
of the war and have been repeated calls
by the United States to scale down uh uh
the the war uh in Gaza in light of the
uh High death toall among the civilian
population in Gaza but also the LED in
more aid but also when it comes to post
war scenarios there's been a lot of
pressure on the Israeli government to
actually uh Define what a post-war Gaza
will look like and one of them is this a
goal of a pathway to a Palestinian state
state um as Anthony blinkin has said it
also in the region he was here last week
talking to of leaders also in the region
saying that uh also the Arab countries
mainly he visited also Saudi Arabia uh
which a country uh Israel has no uh
diplomatic relations with but of course
saying that uh Arab countries would like
to see would like to help with a
reconstruction of of Gaza uh but also
would like to see a pathway to a
Palestinian state to uh possibly
reintegrate Israel in the region we'll
leave it there for the time being but
thanks so much for joining us today
Tanya ker from
Jerusalem